W-11365581 Exchange enable and disable public portal jh (#206)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/enable-and-disable-a-public-portal.adoc

= Enable and Disable a Public Portal
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> All public portals in Exchange created after July 2022 are disabled by default. You cannot sign in to view assets or share new assets on your public portal unless you enable them. You must be an Exchange administrator to enable or disable a public portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All public portals in Exchange are enabled by default. If disable your public portal, you cannot sign in to view assets or share new assets on your public portal unless you re-enable them. You must be an Exchange administrator to enable or disable a public portal.
```

Reviewer: After a QUAD meeting this was decided:

Reviewer: Should we plan for Phase II of "Ability to disable public portal"?
Jul 12 Quad meeting: We'll plan Phase II for Q3 + keep public portals enabled by default until Phase II is completed

Reviewer: So we should change this text

Author: Thanks for letting me know. I will update the content.

Author: updated

= Enable and Disable a Public Portal
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> All organizational public portals in Exchange created after July 2022 are disabled by default. You cannot sign in to view assets or share new assets on your public portal unless you enable them. You must be an Exchange administrator to enable or disable a public portal.

Reviewer: The word "organizational" is a bit strange considering that there is no "non" organizational public portals 🤔. I know this was originally written by me 😛  but maybe we can delete that word and leave "All public portals in Exchange ...". What do you think?

Author: Yes, that makes sense to me. I will change "organizational' to "all".

> To determine of your public portal is enabled or disabled, use the following request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To determine if your public portal is enabled or disabled, use the following request:
```

----
curl "https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/portals/YOUR_ORGANIZATION_DOMAIN/status"
----

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

== Enable a Public Portal

> All assets that are shared in the public portal do not require authorization to view the details of an asset or download the specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You do not need authorization to view the details or download the specifications of assets shared in the public portal.
```

Reviewer 2: the sentence was just a little wonky toward the end so trying to revise it, maybe could also write

To start using your organization's public portal and sharing assets publicly, you must enable the portal.

. Get an access token from an Anypoint Platform user account that has the Organization Administrator permission in the root organization:
+
[source,console]
----
ACCESS_TOKEN=$(curl https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/login -XPOST -d "username=YOUR_USERNAME&password=YOUR_PASSWORD" | jq -r ".access_token")
----
+

> . Use the access token to change the status of your organization's public portal to enabled status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Use the access token to change the status of your organization's public portal to enabled:
```

Reviewer 2: Or "Use the access token to enable organization's public portal:

+
----
curl -X PUT https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/portals/YOUR_ORGANIZATION_DOMAIN/status -d "enabled" -H "content-type: text/plain" -H "authorization: bearer $ACCESS_TOKEN"
----

== Disable a Public Portal

> You can disable your public portal if you do not want to have any publicly shared information about your assets. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not want to publicly share any information about your assets, disable your public portal. 
```

> To disable your organization's public portal, all the assets that are shared in the public portal must be set to private. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To disable your organization's public portal, set all the assets that are shared in the public portal to private. 
```

> . To view which assets are shared in the public portal, use the following request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view which assets are shared in the public portal, use the following request:
```

+
[source,console]
----
curl 'https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/api/v2/portals/YOUR_ORGANIZATION_DOMAIN/assets' | jq '.[] | [.groupId,.assetId]'
----

> . Perform the following steps to set all the assets that are shared publicly in the public portal to private:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Perform the following steps to set all the assets that are shared publicly in the public portal to private:
```

> .. Select the asset in Exchange and click *Share*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the asset in Exchange and click *Share*.
```

> .. Select *Public - Publish in the on the public portal*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *Public - Publish in the on the public portal*.
```

> .. Unselect the version checkbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Unselect the version checkbox.
```

+
The version of the asset is set to *Private*.
+

> .. Select *Save*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *Save*.
```
